{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNSText-Italic;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNSText;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue34;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18039;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 (Carrying this over from last week:) Think of your friends and family, if they were the designers of computer technology what would it do/look like?\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you determine when something seemingly innocuous (like changing from a black screen to white screen) is coded violence rather than a coincidence?\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Think about where members of your family were 100 or 200 years ago. What forms of technology did they use or were used against them?\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is the role or use of abstract thinking in various labor/liberation struggles?\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Have you ever used technology that you were embarrassed or ashamed to have\'97broken or obsolete devices? Do you still feel the same way?\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
When I was growing up we had a toaster. Or, for accuracy, I should say when I was 
\f1\i born
\f0\i0 , we had a toaster. Around the point when I learned to ride a bicycle the handle fell off. It was taped back on with duck tape.  I hated that toaster. The dials were confusing and the white plastic stained a nicotine-addict yellow. When I was 10 the toaster got very hot one day and belched up a plume of black smoke, staining the wall behind it. \
\
 I thought surely that would be the end of it. But instead, the wretched toaster was gently fixed and placed right back next to the gleaming microwave. It sat there, underneath the scar it had left for another 8 years.\
\
I never understood it. Or my parents strange obstinacy in keeping a device that 
\f1\i worked
\f2\i0  but could not be said to 
\i work well
\i0  and was, in my opinion, an eyesore in an otherwise pretty kitchen. I asked if it was the money, if the reason we had to have this stupid semi-broken toaster was that we could not afford a new one.\
\
 I was told that no, we could, if we wanted, afford a new toaster. It wasn\'92t about that. It was that you don\'92t throw out things that work. They may take a little more energy, they may break more frequently and have to be nursed back to health\'97but an object is like a relationship. When you find something good, you don\'92t just ditch it for the next shiny thing. \
\
It was the same way my Dad\'92s wheezing station wagon (mark two) was retired only when it was hit by a Prius going forty onto a local onramp.\
 \
It is the same way with my Dad\'92s current ancient station wagon (mark three) which is nearing the twenty year mark and leaks when it rains. Sometimes, on twilight evenings, I catch my Dad wistfully reminicising over the original station wagon, the one that took him up and down between Florida and upstate New York when my parents went to separate grad schools. That ancient station wagon (mark one) was sacrificed when they bought one way tickets out to California thirty years ago, but never forgotten. \
\

\f0 It took building a life of my own, before I started to finally realize what my parents were trying to teach me. The value of money and the resistance inherent in the 
\f1\i good enough
\f2\i0 . 
\f0 Our current consumer culture churns out goods manufactured far away from our eyes with costs uncalculated by us as we stand in line at the local Target. To keep the apparatus churning, requires two things: 1. the ability to continually produce new, marginally different, marginally more powerful merchandise at a very low cost 2. To convince the consumer that our relationships with the things that we have do not exist and are not meaningful. It\'92s perhaps strange, but right now, I find the act of 
\f1\i ownership
\f2\i0  a slightly radical act\'97because the world is hell bent on convincing me that nothing is 
\i truly mine
\i0 \'97not a car which I can lease, a laptop which I can borrow, an apartment I can rent, a large phone which I can trade in in two years for something gargantuan. Because the flip side of \'93possession\'94 or perhaps \'93partnership\'94 is responsibility. We take care of things that are ours. We cultivate them. We don\'92t throw them away for something shinier. 
\f0 \
\
\
\
\
}