Black Gooey Universe notes and ramblings

- I noticed my reservations on starting to write this response. I'm still trying to dissect it, but I think it is originating from feelings like I have no "right" to contribute to this discussion, or this meta-discussion about contribution, because I am not black, because I am coming from a position of privilege. However, not contributing is much worse than contributing from a place of caution, maybe? I think recognizing this reservation and my positions of privilege are steps forward, rather than backwards
- The very obvious non-mentions of white names in Black Gooey Universe is very significant and strongly resonated with me. The deliberate choice of the display (black paper) and word choices of the language as part of the artistic and social statement was chilling to discover and think about why I had not seen this form of statement through presentation before
- It was very eye opening for me to think how many other things in the world were designed by an homogenous group, and scary to think that there are countless processes and UIs I take "as is" without considering nor questioning the origins of those tools.
- Reflecting as a former maker of software for other people and cog in the corporate world... how many decisions did I make without question because of existing corporate processes, designs, jargon, etc? Would I have made those decisions differently if I first thought critically beyond existing ways, or would the "cog-ness" of my incentives lead to not taking responsibilities nor action against those choices?
- Planned Obsolescence in technology. Back when my family did not have as much privilege as now, I was very ashamed about the type of apartments we lived in, the phones we had, the clothes we wore. After a year or two, my dad decided to spend a lot of our money in buying new technologies, because they were easy status symbols. I think this has (perhaps unfortunately) shaped a lot about how I have consumed technology thus far in life. I look forward to reexamining my realistic non-need for the newest models. 
