{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'91The Gooey Universe\'92 reading from this week reminded me of the broader conversations that we had during class last time. Can software ever be free of the maker\'92s biases? What if the makers \'97 usually white cis men in Silicon Valley \'97  have a bias that they are hard-wiring into their software and hardware? \
\
Last week's \'91On Software, or the Persistence of Visual Knowledge\'92 by Chun got me started thinking about how all software has the potential to hide the inner workings of a computer. This week, 'The Gooey Universe\'92 made me think about how the graphical interface of modern computers hide the intentions of developers and programmers. I agree that as digital devices get ever simpler, the hardware and inner workings of them seem to get ever more hidden. I am of two minds about this change \'97 it allows technology to be democratized in the sense that it allows for non-technical people to utilize devices, but also it means that computer companies such as Apple hold a tremendous amount of power over us. Power that is so vast, in fact, that it is invisible. The comparison American Artist makes about the erasure of a black screen as the erasure of blackness is an apt one. As a technologically skilled person, using simple interfaces without GUIs (such as terminals), it seems that the process of how your input gets translated into the output is fairly transparent. If we equate transparency to honesty, modern devices can be said to have the potential for being dishonest. The degree of that dishonesty is up to the developers who made the software for these devices. If such a small group of people hold so much power, how do we hold them accountable? How do we make sure that they are fairly representing all of us? There are so many questions to answers I do not know.}