{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Part 1: Abstraction, Costs & Benefits
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 In Kyong-Chun\'92s essay, she discusses the\'a0\'93curious\'94 separation and distinction we make between hardware/software. She argues that this level of abstraction is dangerous because it allows us to forget or overlook part of the story of computation. I agree and will talk more about what I see as the costs of abstraction\'97but I disagree with the idea that the separation between hardware/software is\'a0\'93curious\'94. She quotes another author saying that symbolic programming was not an anticipated outcome of computing/computers. I think this\'a0stance overlooks two things specifically:\'a0
\fs24 \

\fs36 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The history of computation linked to mathematics\'a0
\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs36 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The\'a0\'93hardware\'94 /\'a0\'93software\'94 distinction is not limited to computation, but is a common human delineation between an artifact and a symbol
\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 \
I\'92m not an expert on the history of computation, but looking at ideas like Babbage\'92s differential & analytical engines (earlier) or Turing\'92s universal machines (around the same time as Von Neumann\'92s observations I believe)\'97there is a part of computation that has always belonged more in the realm of mathematics than in the realm of the concrete. We\'92ve always been building imaginary machines.
\fs24 \

\fs36 \
Furthermore, when thinking about something like music\'97I feel that we land in much the same place as we do with hardware and software. What is a piece of music? Is it the waveform produced at the instant of production, \'a0is it a simulation of the\'a0original wave form in a recording, is it the\'a0score for the music which we might well call the\'a0\'93instructions\'94 on how to produce it?\'a0
\fs24 \

\fs36 \
\'a0I do agree with Kyong-Chun however, that the\'a0\'93hardware\'94 part of computer history, in particular, the role of women as operators and programmers is not discussed widely enough as we both create, reinforce, and then enshrine the notion of the lone male genius programmer living in a tower of abstraction.\'a0
\fs24 \

\fs36 \
Divorcing ourselves from the level of hardware allows us to discount the real and physical cost of the things we use and consume. When we talk about the\'a0\'93cloud\'94 or\'a0\'93running a piece of software\'94 we are not force to think about the natural minerals that are mined to produce the hardware that host our programs or the data centers that store our data in remote places or the vast amounts of energy we consume maintaining those things. It allows us to think of\'a0\'93the web\'94 as an unlimited expanse. At the same time, symbols and abstraction can be necessary in order for us to function. There are very few people who can (or I should say want to or would find it helpful) to hold the deep knowledge in their heads that goes from the\'a0level of machine all the way up to the apis they use to solve\'a0their every day problems to the button they click to make their computer\'a0\'93do\'94 something. So, I\'92m not sure where I net out.\'a0
\fs24 \
}