{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Technology has become nearly invisible in our lives. Perhaps software has become transparent in many forms. \
I draw the parallels in Amazon Alexa, a digital assistant that I have. The hardware is shaped in the form of a small speaker, and it sits in a small corner of my living room. Since the device is very small and it is voice activated, I usually don\'92t see the physical device but I talk to it frequently. I ask \'91her\'92 to play songs, or what the weather will be like for the next day. Although it was rather awkward to get used to for the first few days, it increasingly become part of the fabric of daily life. Although convenient, I can\'92t help but notice that it is subtly training me to talk in certain ways. I might be pronouncing words in a certain way so the AI might recognize it easier, or even structuring sentences in a way that I wouldn\'92t do if I were talking to a fellow human. Is the software now training me, instead of the other way around? I can\'92t help but wonder if the lack of visible hardware is making me be less likely to be critical. \
After doing our reading, I can\'92t help but notice that this virtual assistant is female, like the female programmers of so long ago in the early computer age. There may be no real human female assistants anymore, but it seems developers have created a digital version of them. It strikes me as an uncomfortable balance. I\'92m sure the notion was to \'91make it more friendly\'92 rather than conscious sexism, but I can\'92t help but wince at the notion that even in the virtual world, an assistant would need a female persona. Is this a byproduct of the tech industry workers being mostly male? Shouldn\'92t we make it a point of this century to end the circle of objectification and sexism? Perhaps it\'92s time to admit that technology around us today are biased in troubling ways. We can start by making our digital assistants be diverse instead of just female. }