Wendy Hui Kyong Chun’s “On Software, or the Persistence of Visual Knowledge” left me with more questions than answers. What does “the persistence of visual knowledge” mean? Chun asserted the “knowledge software offers is as obfuscatory as it is revealing.” But is Chun aware of how this article itself obfuscates by using predominantly inaccessible academic language and references? 
Chun spoke about the visual knowledge that software subsumes as common sense in the sense that software has become a “common sense shorthand for culture and hardware a shorthand for nature.” They also spoke against the system of dominance and control software represents and how it sustains and depoliticizes notions of ideology and ideology critique. I think this goes hand in hand with white male fragility, especially in the contemporary moment we find ourselves in now with increased attempts at generalizing struggle as an effort (mostly) by white people to identify themselves with marginalized groups, without having experienced actual systemic oppression (shout out to white queer academics). 
Think of the masculine-presenting demisexual non-binary white Latinx person who doesn’t think of themselves as white but mostly engages in heteronormative, white people activities (for lack of a better term LOL). Are these identities tacked on in an effort to distance themselves from the hegemonic tenets of whiteness?
And what about the dissonance within the exchange between Grace Murray Hopper (“one of the first and most important programmers”) and Howard Aiken, in which Aiken condescendingly ‘explains’ to Hopper what a computing machine is just before asking her to compute the coefficients of the arc tangent series by Thursday? And then for Chun to challenge this interaction by suggesting a link between programming and female sexuality, thus essentializing the detail oriented and nurturing aspects of program to femininity or rather, female sex organs? I think there is a better way to dispel programming as a both a gendered and sexualized phenomenon that doesn’t use biologically essentialist framing.
